Although empirical research on productivity growth has used a variety of
methodologies, most of the analysis has evolved along two primary paths:
growth accounting or direct econometric estimation. Both are based on the
underlying concept of an aggregate production function. Growth accounting combines the production function with the assumption of competitive
markets, leading to the use of income shares to measure the contribution of
factor inputs. This method focuses on identifying contributions of individual
factor inputs and a residual, typically called total factor productivity (TFP).
In contrast, the econometric approach focuses on exploring alternative functional forms for the production function, and does not rely on any assumption
that markets are competitive.
Most empirical studies have tended to emphasize what might be labeled
the proximate causes of growth: measuring the quantity and quality of capital
and labor inputs, and viewing the TFP residual as representing a combination
of changes in efficiency and the production technology. More recently, some
researchers have sought to go beyond proximate causes, so as to associate
the fundamental sources of long-term differences in living standards with
underlying differences in institutional and legal arrangements and geography. In these studies, TFP is perceived as the driving force behind growth.
Accumulation of both physical capital and labor skills is taken to be largely
endogenous—and ultimately induced by changes in TFP. From this perspective, developing a theory of TFP is a central objective.2

Building from the seminal work by Solow (1957), modern productivity
analysis begins with the concept of an aggregate production function.

The alternative, which we follow here, is to adjust for skill differences
using a simple index of educational attainment. For example, an index of
the form:
(5) L*
 = e as L
assumes that each year of schooling, s, raises the average worker’s productivity by a constant percentage, a. This formulation parallels the vast
number of empirical studies that use “Mincer regressions” to measure the
relationship between wages and years of schooling. Such studies have
been carried out for different time periods and for a large number of countries around the world, typically finding a return to each additional year of
education in the range of 7 to 12 percent.4
Finally, we would also like to adjust the measure of the capital input for
variations in the flow of capital services associated with capital of different
service lives. The rapid pace of innovation and economic obsolescence of
high-tech capital makes this an issue of growing importance. Unfortunately,
few countries have sufficiently detailed information to make these types of
compositional adjustments to their capital inputs measure—and India is no
exception. The data constraints are particularly acute at the level of individual
industries. Instead, an estimate of the capital stock is commonly used as an
index of the growth in capital services.5
Using this framework, we estimate a set of growth accounts over the
period 1960–61 to 2004–05, for the total economy and the three major
sectors—agriculture, industry and services—as well as for manufacturing.6
We have excluded residential housing from services and the total economy
because income from housing is based solely on imputations, and is all
assigned to capital income. As described more fully below, the output and
capital stock data are from the national accounts. These reflect the significance
cant revisions associated with the adoption of the new 1999–2000 base.
Estimates of employment are based on results from the quinquennial
household surveys.

The Indian statistical agencies face substantial challenges in preparing
measures of output and employment at both the aggregate and sector levels.
The difficulties arise primarily because a large portion of the nonagricultural
workforce operates outside of standard reporting programs. Furthermore,
India’s national accounts are highly dependent on a series of quinquennial
surveys for information on households and small enterprises. Therefore,
annual estimates of output and employment (as well as estimates at higher
frequencies), are largely based on simple interpolations and extrapolations
of underlying source data. We have relied heavily on the comprehensive
analysis of Sivasubramonian (2004) for the development of the requisite
data at the level of the total economy. We have extended his analysis by
incorporating recent revisions of the national accounts and by developing
comparable growth accounts for the major sub-sectors of the Indian economy
(agriculture, industry, manufacturing, and services). We have also incorporated an alternative methodology, explained above, to estimate the contribution of improvements in the educational attainment of the workforce.
In the remainder of this section, we discuss the data used to construct
growth accounts for India. Output measures are considered first, followed
by each of the factor inputs and, finally, measures of factor shares. Along
the way, we summarize key data concerns and their implications.
OUTPUT. India has a reasonably good statistical system for measuring
output of the agricultural sector and output of non-agricultural enterprises
that participate in government reporting programs, and are classified as
part of the organized sector.7
 For example, this includes factories registered
under the 1948 Factories Act, as well as large portions of mining, utilities,
communications and finance. For these enterprises, it is possible to construct estimates of value added for national accounts, using either the production approach or the income approach. Furthermore, original source data
are often available annually.

GDP by major industry, as well as the share of output in each industry produced in the organized versus the unorganized sectors.8
 The final column
shows the percent of employment that is unorganized in each sector.9
Within the nonagricultural economy, for example, 44 percent of the GDP
was in the unorganized sector, while it accounted for 88 percent of total
employment.
For the unorganized sector, Indian measures of GDP are constructed
using the labor input method. Thus, estimates of labor input at the industry level are combined with measures of value added per worker (VAPW)
from a variety of enterprise surveys. Labor input in the unorganized sector is estimated as the residual difference between measures of total labor
input and labor input in the organized sector. The latter is obtained from
employer reports, while the total labor input measure is constructed from
the quinquennial household survey. In this context, it is important to note
that labor input is defined in terms of the number of jobs, not the number
of workers. Since the objective is to obtain an employment measure equivalent to the one that employers would report (inclusive of multiple job
holding), the number of workers reporting a principal employment activity
over the prior year is added to the number of workers reporting a subsidiary
employment activity. Each worker could be recorded as having up to two
jobs. No adjustment is made for full versus part-time work for either primary
or secondary jobs.10
The techniques described above should generate reasonably good estimates of output in the benchmark years for which survey data are available.
However, India has no consistent source of information about employment
in the unorganized sector for the years between the quinquennial surveys

Annual information on value added per worker is equally limited, since the
value-added data are also updated on an approximate 5-year cycle. Therefore, detailed calculations of output using the labor input method can only
be undertaken for benchmark years. Estimates of value added for the years
between benchmarks are obtained by interpolation. Estimates for years
since the most recent benchmark are obtained by extrapolating the labor
inputs, based on growth between the two most recent benchmarks.
Table 2 provides a stark illustration of the problems created by the lack
of underlying annual survey data for the unorganized portions of the economy. The first column shows the sector composition of GDP, using the
1993–94 benchmark revision. The next two columns show two estimates
of 1993–94 GDP—one using the 1980–81 benchmark and the other from the
revised data. Column 4 shows the percentage difference between the two.
The revisions to 1993–94 GDP were substantial, raising the estimate of
total GDP by fully 9 percent. In part, the sizable revisions that accompanied
the shift to the 1993–94 base reflect the fact that it had been so many years
since the introduction of the 1980–81 base. But it is important to point out
that the revisions are quite small for those industries that are largely in the
organized sector and for which annual sources of information are available.
In contrast, the necessity of relying on the labor input methodology and
past rates of change to extrapolate output resulted in particularly large output revisions in the service-producing industries (15 percent, on average).
Output for the category that includes business services was revised upwards by 103 percent. The lack of good output data for the service industry
is a problem in all countries. It is of particular importance for India because
of the prominent role that services are expected to play in the country’s
future growth.
