On savings and investment, we assess the quality of various estimates
offered by the Central Statistical Organization (CSO) and argue that the
overall rate of saving has expanded substantially in recent years. Furthermore, we conclude that the supply of private saving in India is adequate to
support a significantly higher rate of growth in future years. From the perspective of physical capital formation, the problems are more concentrated
in the extreme dissaving of the public sector and the apparent weakness of
investment incentives on the demand side.
There is already an extensive empirical literature—often using growth
accounts—that examine India’s past economic growth. Many of the studies
address one or more of the following topics. First, a number of analysts
have focused on characterizing India’s economic performance at the most
aggregate level. While there is concurrence on the fact that the growth
improved during the past quarter century, researchers have reached varying conclusions on some issues such as the timing and precise magnitude
of this acceleration, and the relative importance of changes in domestic
policy. For example, Virmani (1997), Rodrik and Subramanian (2005) and
Kohli (2006a and b) point out that growth initially accelerated during the
1980s, predating the reforms that followed the crisis of the early 1990s.
Within this context, Rodrik-Subramanian and Kohli both stress the role of
what they term “pro-business” reforms that began in the early 1980s. In contrast, Srinivasan (2003b) and Panagariya (2004) argue that India’s growth
did accelerate prior to the more substantial liberalizations in the 1990s, but
that this was concentrated in 1988–91 following some initial liberalizations
and furthermore, that it was driven by unsustainable increases in public expenditures and excessive foreign borrowing, thus culminating in the balance
of payments crisis of 1991. There are on-going discussions over the extent
to which the current growth can be maintained and various means by which
it might be increased.
Second, analysts have examined the behavior of particular sectors.
A number of authors have studied productivity in manufacturing—reaching
a wide range of conflicting conclusions. However, as explained in detail by
Goldar and Mitra (2002), differences in the findings can be largely attributed
to a variety of measurement issues, such as the use of single versus double
deflation to construct estimates of real growth in manufacturing value added.
Goldar (2004) provides a careful recent update showing that TFP growth
in manufacturing appears to have slowed in the post reform period; raising additional puzzles discussed below.1
 However, due to difficulties in
measuring employment within individual industries, our analysis focuses
primarily on the broader industrial sector. Additional studies that focus on

the performance of agriculture and India’s services sector are discussed in
later sections of this paper.
Thus, this paper is comprised of four remaining sections. The next section details the construction of growth accounts for India, with considerable
attention paid to the quality of the underlying data. The section following it
presents and discusses the results. Section three examines a range of issues
related to the role of capital accumulation in India’s growth experience.
It focuses first on human capital and then turns to an analysis of investment
