Optimism about the potential for India’s economic growth has
grown steadily in recent years. In part, this is fueled by China’s
example of strong sustained growth, raising the obvious question of why
India cannot do as well. However, the optimism also reflects the fact that
India’s growth has accelerated over the past two decades. And while still
well below the growth rate in China, this favorable performance contrasts
with growth slowdowns in other regions. It has also enabled the emergence
of a significant middle class in India. Interestingly, India’s economic performance has differed from that of China and other parts of Asia in at least
two dimensions. First, India’s success has not been based on strong growth
in the manufacturing sector and in exports. Instead, it has reflected very
rapid expansion of the service-producing industries. Second, it has been
associated with relatively modest levels of investment. Even incorporating
recent data revisions, India’s physical capital accumulation has not been
impressive. And despite substantial increases in the number of Indians
attaining higher education, illiteracy rates remain high.
In this paper, we build on a growth accounting framework to empirically
examine these dimensions of India’s recent growth. How has the growth
been distributed among agriculture, industry, and the service-producing
sectors? What are the major contributors to that growth: increased employment, physical capital, educational attainment, or improvements in
the basic efficiency of resource use (total factor productivity)? We are particularly interested in the sources of growth in the service-producing
industries. Is it sustainable or should India place greater emphasis on
the manufacturing sector and the promotion of rapid growth in export
markets? Throughout the analysis, we are concerned about the quality of
the available statistical data.

growth accounting framework, combined with our emphasis on data issues,
pulls together concerns that have typically been treated separately, and that
do not appear to have been consistently recognized. Our updated growth
accounts are based on extensive examination of the relevant underlying
data series, enabling us to clarify a number of issues related to how the data
are constructed. The updated accounts incorporate recent data revisions,
some of which are quite large. They also provide new estimates for the
contributions to overall growth from changes in labor productivity within
major economic sectors versus the gains from reallocating labor and capital
among the sectors. Furthermore, we have examined a variety of additional
data in our analysis of the role of capital accumulation—providing estimates
of the returns to schooling for human capital, and reporting on trends in
sectoral saving and investment in physical capital.
The existing literature on productivity in India focuses either on the performance of the aggregate economy or manufacturing, the latter at the
industry or firm level. But understanding India’s evolving transformation
from a primarily rural and agricultural economy to a more modern one requires analysis of both the evolution of productivity in all three key sectors—
agriculture, industry and services—and the implications for aggregate productivity growth of the reallocation of resources out of agriculture to more
productive activities in industry and services. This is particularly essential
for India where, in contrast with the typical pattern in East Asia (including
China), the primary driver for growth has been services, not industry.


Our paper fills this important gap by separating aggregate productivity
growth into growth for each of the major sectors of the economy and by
providing an estimate of the growth effects of factor reallocation among
sectors. A key finding of the paper is that services have shown very substantial productivity growth since the early 1980s—a result in sharp contrast to that obtained for other countries at a similar stage of development.
Productivity gains in agriculture and industry have been modest, which
is consistent with both the findings of prior studies of India and those for
other comparable countries such as Korea and Taiwan in the 1960s and
1970s. What distinguishes the Indian case is the relatively small output
growth in industry. As a result, the sector has not played a major role in
reallocating workers out of agriculture where they are underutilized.
We argue that the emphasis on business services as the driving force
behind the expansion of the Indian economy is frequently overstated.
Despite its extraordinary growth, the industry comprises only a small share
of India’s GDP and overall employment. In addition, business services
provide jobs primarily for the relatively small proportion of the workforce
that is highly educated. We find some evidence that the current emphasis
on high-skill services is already encountering some shortages—a bidding
up of the relative wage rate for secondary and university-level graduates.
Furthermore, high rates of total factor productivity (TFP) growth in the
overall services sector, which includes such industries as trade, transportation and education where we would not expect to observe rapid TFP growth,
raise concerns that growth of the sector may be overstated in the statistics.
In any case, India’s growth expansion is not creating adequate job growth
for the bulk of the population that is not particularly well-educated. Thus,
it is important that India broaden the base of the current expansion by promoting programs that would increase India’s attractiveness as a source of
manufactured goods for the world market. The growth of the manufacturing
sector would provide a strong match for the skills of the Indian workforce.
The paper also offers a discussion of two additional subjects that have
an important bearing on growth and productivity: education and physical
investment. On the former, we provide an empirical analysis of the returns
to different levels of schooling in India. While we do find a high average
return, our results suggest that returns are relatively low at the elementary
levels. This is surprising compared to the results for other developing countries, and a cause for concern, given the large share of the population with
little education. As we illustrate, the Indian workforce is not particularly
well-educated. Illiteracy rates are high by international standards, even
among the young, and we find evidence of shortages among the group of
highly-educated workers (university graduates) who have done so well in
recent years. India also faces significant challenges in the quality of the
educational system. Thus, India needs to expand the supply of well-educated
workers at the same time that it increases the demand for workers with
more modest skills.










